# Project Description
This project is based on Machine Learning and Python. This project aims to decode the popularity pattern in various Android apps.

It is a binary classification project, where our goal is to classify the apps from the Google Play Store into two categories based on their popularity. The dataset used for this project was pretty huge comprising about 2.3 million records. Used Python-ML libraries to handle the high-volume dataset. The dataset had to be labeled, and the imbalance issue in the dataset was handled by random sampling techniques. Explored various factors contributing to the popularity of the apps and how these factors play a crucial role in making an app popular or unpopular. Implemented various supervised machine learning models namely logistic regression, support vector machine (SVM), K-Nearest neighbor (KNN), decision tree, and random forest for the classification task and obtained a detailed classification report along with the confusion matrix. Hyperparameter tuning and Threshold tuning were done to enhance the performance of the models. All these models were evaluated based on various evaluation metrics like precision, recall, overall accuracy of the model, etc. The goal was to reduce false positives, which means the apps classified as popular should indeed be popular, enabling to consideration of precision as the primary metric. When a comparison was made, the K-Nearest neighbor (KNN) had a better precision rate and performed well.

Skills: Exploratory Data Analysis · Big Data · Data-driven Decision Making · Data Analysis · Microsoft Excel · Data Analytics · Python (Programming Language) · Machine Learning
